[8202] Add ADR for decision to use tokens for API Auth (#5060)
DFE-Digital/register-trainee-teachers: docs/adr/0010-use-token-authentication-for-api-access.md

# 10. Use token authentication for API access

Date: 2025-02-19

## Status

Accepted

## Context

> For Register API access, bearer tokens will be used by external clients. The clients can self-service with tokens through admin screens in the Register App.

Reviewer: Should we mention self expiring since that was floated a while back

Reviewer 2: I think we will want to set an expiry date when tokens are created, but we haven't decided on the details of that yet, so I think it's ok to leave out for now.

> For Register API access, bearer tokens will be used by external clients. The clients can self-service with tokens through admin screens in the Register App.

Reviewer 2: Maybe avoid potential misinterpretation of users needing to be 'admins' in Register (which they won't be).

```suggestion
For Register API access, bearer tokens will be used by external clients. The clients can self-service with tokens through token management screens in the Register App.
```

Although the preferred method of external client API Access is OAuth, this requires a solution for ITT Providers that provides a self-service customer management portal that is also consistent with the offering from Apply as the same ITT Providers use both systems and consistency needs to be a key consideration.

The OAuth solution is still in the discussion / design phase, so will not be ready for go live for the Register API with enough lead time for ITT Providers client development, hence the decision to go live with bearer tokens.

## Decision

> Use bearer tokens for API Authentication for external clients. Admin screens to manage the tokens will be developed in the Register App.

Reviewer 2: Similar to the previous comment, just for clarity.

```suggestion
Use bearer tokens for API Authentication for external clients. Token management screens will be developed in the Register App.
```
